== Folders &amp; Organisation ==

The list describes the purpose of these folders and provides a small survey about the files that are stored in these folders:

* <b>reveal:</b> Presentation Libraries (https://github.com/hakimel/reveal.js).
* <b>mathjax:</b> Render Mathemematical Formulas (https://github.com/mathjax/MathJax).
* <b>mypresentation:</b> Media files for the reveal presentation &quot;mypresentation.html&quot;

== Folder reveal: ==

* Contains all the files that allows the use of all features of the reveal project.
* The libraries created by Hakim El Hattab are embedded in all the reveal presentations.
* The content of the &quot;reveal&quot; folder can be replaces by newer versions of &quot;reveal.js&quot;
* URL: https://github.com/hakimel/reveal.js

== Folder mathjax: ==

* In standard [https://github.com/hakimel/reveal.js reveal.js] presentations mathematical formulas are rendered with MathJax by importing the MathJax libraries via internet access.
* This has the disadvantage that mathematical formulas are not rendered, when you do not have internet connectivity or the MathJax libraries are removed from the browser cache.
* The local MathJax libraries avoid these problems. The content of the &quot;mathjax&quot; folder can be replaces by newer versions of &quot;MathJax&quot;
* URL: https://github.com/mathjax/MathJax
* Homepage: http://www.mathjax.org

== Mathemtatics: ==

* Taylor Series <math>f(x)=\sum_{n=0}^\infty\frac{f^{(n)}(a)}{n!}(x-a)^n</math><br />
Separate Math Form 

<math> \displaystyle \left( \sum_{k=1}^n a_k b_k \right)^2 \leq \left( \sum_{k=1}^n a_k^2 \right) \left( \sum_{k=1}^n b_k^2 \right) </math>

== Folder Audio Video: ==

* if you use medis files create a subdirectory in the project directory call ''media/'' with the subfolders ''media/audio'', ''media/video'' and ''media/images''
* thes folders contain all media files (Video, Audio, Images, ...) that are used in the reveal presentation or other PanDoc export formats.

== Commands for MarkDown ==

* The file ''README_pres.txt'' is e.g. a text file in MarkDown and converted into Reveal.
* The following PanDoc command creates a reveal presentation from Markdown.

<pre>pandoc -t html5 --template=tpl4reveal.html \
      --standalone --section-divs \
      --variable theme=&quot;beige&quot; \
      --variable transition=&quot;slide&quot; \
      slides.md -o slides.html</pre>
== Commands for WikiMedia ==

* Source Files from Wikipedia (e.g. Edit Article) can be retrieved and stored as text file.
* The following PanDoc command creates a reveal presentation from the Wikipedia file ''&quot;wikipedia.wiki&quot;''.

<pre>pandoc -f mediawiki -t html5 --template=tpl4reveal.html \
     --standalone --section-divs \
     --variable theme=&quot;beige&quot; \
     --variable transition=&quot;slide&quot; --mathjax \
     wikipedia.wiki -o wikipedia.html </pre>
== Learning Markdown &amp; WikiMedia ==

* Learning Markdown http://www.markdowntutorial.com
* Learning WikiMedia https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Tutorial

